Smart bending is one of those things
where after shopping ads, it's basically
one of the best things that come out of
Google Ads in the last few years. It
does a much better job than we have ever
done at managing bids, but at the same
time, there are things that smart
bidding simply doesn't know that's
important to improve performance. That's
why I use stuff like max bid limits in
every single Google Ads account I
manage. Sometimes is very aggressive,
sometimes they're very lenient. Often I
will change them throughout the year.
often I'll change them throughout
different seasonality, different times
of of what we're just running in the
account. But the one thing here is that
I use them all the time.
The trap is that almost everybody gets
wrong is that in an attempt to save
money, they set this bid limit way too
aggressively and end up overlimiting the
algorithm. And when you do that, you're
not just cutting costs, you're quietly
telling Smart Bidding to stop showing
ads to some of your best and most
profitable customers. basically the most
expensive auctions that are out there.
And that's how Google reps get
ammunition to tell you not to touch a
setting. Just let smart betting be. Wait
for it to work. I'm going to show you
exactly how to find the perfect balance
to control your CPCs without strangling
your campaign's growth. But let's start
with a quick explainer of the two
features. So, the maximum bid limit is
the ceiling. It's it's basically a
straightforward command. You're telling
smart bidding under no circumstances
should you bid higher than X for a
single click. It acts like a hard bit
ceiling preventing your cost per click
from getting too high. It's a direct and
predictable way to control your upper
end costs and it doesn't have any
algorithmic impact. You can see an
immediate effect out of it and you don't
have to wait. The minimum bid limit on
the other hand is far more nuance and it
carries some risk in my opinion. It
attempts to establish what's called like
a bid floor where you say don't bid
lower than this but its behavior is
different from the max bit limit. The
scenario is if smart bidding is
confident that it can hit your return on
rows target then the minimum bid will
force it to bid at least your specified
amount even though it might not think it
can overall hit it or anything like
that. However, there is a scenario where
if smart bidding thinks that overall are
in this particular auction, it can't
achieve your target rows while bidding
your minimum bid amount, then it won't
just bid lower. It won't just go down to
that. It will pull you from the auction
completely. And it's something that the
documentation doesn't really describe.
But it's something that we've seen that
once we actually remove a minimum bit
limit, we get more traffic, which is
odd. But so that just means like the
minimum bid limit you have to be very
careful because that is the critical
difference between you the two where a
max bid simply shaves off the most
expensive clicks then a minimum bid can
prevent you from bidding at all.
However, Google will tell you that the
way the minimum bid works on the auction
is the same way as the maximum bid
works. So, Google will also tell you
that for instance, if you have a bid
limit of 76% of your spend is limited by
your max bid, then 76% of the auctions
that you could participate in, you're
being kept out of, and that's not true,
and I'll go into why later in this
video. There's four ways I use max bid
limits from least to most used. So, my
least used is to start exploring. So, I
will lower my ROS target below what
we're hitting currently, but I'll set a
rather low max bid limit. For instance,
I'll set it to 1.5 or 2x the average CBC
to try to avoid smart bidding increasing
the bids too much and instead go out
wider to explore for new auctions that
we're currently not participating in.
The third one is after a big sale. Now,
seasonal bit adjustments is my go-to,
but in some cases, max bin limits just
work better, and I'll explain more later
in this video. Then there is my second
most used reason and it's from a hygiene
perspective. Paying $20 for a keyword
that normally is $2 in average cost per
click is just wasteful. Here's the
example of where it's just gone
completely crazy. The average CPC in the
account is 30 times less than what some
of the CPCs are being tagged in. And
that's just from an auction standpoint.
It makes no sense that these CPCs are
supposed to be this high. The way that I
use max bending limits the most is when
I encounter poor performance. Sometimes
smart bidding doesn't react fast enough
or we have week after week after week of
not hitting our raw target instead of
just sitting waiting for smart bidding
to do something more. Then I just take
the edge off. I just put a max bit
limit. Maybe I put it at 1.5x the
average uh CBC, maybe 1.2, maybe 1.8
times the average CBC. But I just take
the edge of the high CPCs which helps us
get back to hitting our targets without
having to increase our ro sorry without
having to narrow down smart bidding even
further. There's one question I get a
lot when I teach about max bid limits
and then that is when do we use max bid
limits versus seasonal bid adjustments
because a lot of the examples I showed
you before was about decreasing spend
and that's where we can also use a
negative seasonal bit adjustment. So I
want to explain to you the difference
between the two first and then we can go
in when to use either or. The maximum
bit limit effect is that you can't bid
higher than X. That's what we're telling
smart bidding. But it doesn't have any
impact on any bids lower than the max
bit limit. So if we take this example
for instance, we can see here that we
have bids at eight uh at $8, $5, $4, $3,
$2. And then when we apply a maximum bid
limit, then we're telling the system you
are not allowed to bid higher than this.
And that means that all our bids are
going down to a maximum of 3.5, no
matter where they were before. Now, if
we jump over to a negative seasonal bid
adjustment, it's an equal effect down on
all auctions you participate in. So, if
again we're going we have the exact same
bits as before and we apply a minus 20%
bid adjustment, then all of the auctions
are decreasing. Now, max bid limits work
very well when you want to get out of
the most expensive auctions, but you
don't want to lower the bids for
auctions that you're borderline not
participating in. So, if we go back to
the seasonal bid adjustment uh example,
let's say that the $2 bid that we
currently have and say that dropping
that by 20% will mean we drop out of the
auction, we don't get any more data
anymore. That can be a really bad
negative where in that case it might be
better just to apply a maximum bit
limit. then we're basically not touching
the already low CPCs that we're having.
It doesn't have an effect on the bits,
but we still shave off just the the most
expensive parts of the bits. There's
another part of it, and that is where
it's the season seasonal bit adjustment.
then you're basically also telling
Google to ignore the performance in the
period that you're running the seasonal
bit adjustment, which is a little bit
counterintuitive because if you do it
because there's low performance and you
think that this is the new normal, then
you're going to have a spike the second
your seasonal bit adjustment uh runs out
and then it can it can be better and
easier to manage with maximum bit
limits. What does limited by bit limits
actually mean? So, a major client of
ours was told by Google that this error
message means that you don't get into
76% of the auctions that you should have
gotten into. And that's simply just not
true. What it means is that in 76% of
the auctions that you have been in that
you have been in, smart bidding could
have been bidding higher for it. It
doesn't mean that you've dropped out of
76% of the auctions you could have been
in completely. It just means the smart
bidding wanted to bid higher. So when it
looks at your ROS target and sees hey
based on this row target and the and the
historical performance of this
particular auction I want to bid at this
level but they don't allow me to and I
could have done I could have been
bidding higher. So when Google says that
that's how the maximum bit limit uh
error message means it's not true.
However, that can be definitely the the
meaning for minimum bit limits because
of what I explained to begin with. That
is a very common thing that I see with
minimum bit limits. Just be careful with
minimum bit limits, but it doesn't work
the same for maximum bit limits. I have
so much data, so many times where we've
gone in and reduced the bids uh and we
have not dropped 76% or 50% or 25% in
spend. Here's four common mistakes that
I see made with bid limits. Number one
is being too aggressive. Here is some
data where we go in and we actually
grouped a bunch of campaigns, bunch of
countries to try to see what would
happen if we apply what I call a hygiene
bit limit. what do if we do a rather
aggressive bit limit and what if we do a
very aggressive bit limit and here's
what the data re revealed so the initial
results over the first couple months for
the very aggressive 1x average CBC limit
we lost approximately 15% of clicks
which doesn't seem like that much
because we saw a 15 to 30% better profit
however and this is was the key thing
conversions dropped by 33% what this
mean is that we're getting locked out of
the best auctions. The profit increase
initially looked good, but the long-term
impact when I looked at it after three
months, we started entering a death
spiral. We got less and less and less
and less conversion volume. And it meant
that the backend data looked worse. It
meant that Google ads data also started
to look look worse. And eventually when
I looked at it after three months since
the start, our profit overall profit
volume also began declining. Even though
our POS was extremely good, then the
profit volume started declining. The
last one there and and the the test
showed it very very cleanly that setting
an overly aggressive max bit can only be
done temporarily because you're moving
out of the peak season, you're getting
away from Black Friday or you don't want
to spend as much during Christmas
season, etc., etc., etc. But if you
don't get it away, you are followed by
downward spiral. The second biggest
mistake that I've seen is limiting too
much and then freeing up too much. This
is where it starts max bit limits become
something you have to know how to work
with because they don't work
algorithmically which is something that
I say fast but something you really
really really need to pay attention to.
It means that if you set a too
aggressive max CBC and you're hitting
above your ROS target then the second
you increase your max bit limit smart
bidding will jump very high. not not
always all the way up to your new max
bit limit but very close to it. So if we
actually take this example here, we look
at the last three months in an account
that we're coaching. And we can see that
the uh actual ROS very very routinely is
much higher than what the average target
ROS is. And we can see if we look at it
on a weekly basis, you can see see it
even more clearly that here we're above,
then we fall below, now we're way above.
And I promise you that when we go in and
we actually make the change and we look
at average CBC's, this is going to
correlate directly. So here we have an
average CBC uh max of around I would
guess to five croner and then we drop it
and you can see that the rows
immediately increases. Then we start
increasing the average the the max bit
limit here and it's it it gets increased
too much. It's too much and you can see
now we then drop in terms of the actual
rows below from where we were before.
Now we can see hey this is actually too
low. So, and then go in and apply a much
to again we go we make up too big of a
change to the max bit limit. So, the ROS
skyrockets. This could have been done
much better if you had a smoother way to
go from one bit limit to another. And in
this case, it it has to do with their
promotions as well. But I promise you,
if they could just do this a little bit
more smoothly, then it would work much
better. So, again, the solution to all
this is to slowly get out of your old
Mac CBC's and or adjust your ROS as you
go along. The third mistake I see is
basically the opposite and it is never
changing them. So your max bid limit is
not a max CPC limit. It's a limit for
how high your bid can go. Not b not
basically for how high your CPC can go.
Even though they're very related, then
remember you your cost per click in
Google is what the advertiser below you
and the auction is bidding. So your max
bid limit is not the same as your max
CPC limit. So there's times during the
year that you need to change that
ceiling you where you need to change
that limit. A very good example is Black
Friday. However, the same thing matches
out for the rest of the year. So let's
try to look at this particular case.
Again, this is Black Friday. It's super
easy to follow. But look at it here. We
our average CBC throughout the month is
around four to five croner and then
around Black Friday it skyrockets up to
14 kroner. Most of the year we run a 12
kroner max bit limit. If we hadn't
changed this for Black Friday, no matter
what happens, then our seasonal bid
adjustments wouldn't have done much once
we got past the 12 croner bid and for
some of the products, some of the things
we actually wanted to do it. And that's
kind of what we saw here was that
actually I was a little bit late to
increasing the max bit limits on
Thursday and we didn't see the drive
that we normally would at this time of
the year in terms of going from
Wednesday to Thursday, which was
unfortunate. We had a much better ROS
that that day, but we were still having
a slightly higher ROS than what we
actually wanted to achieve. The fourth
mistake is using the same max bit limit
across all campaigns. This is where your
campaign structure becomes important.
However, if you have the same AOV and
the same CPCs across your account, then
this doesn't really matter. But if you
sell coats with a again that has a high
AOV and underwear that has a low A ob,
then you can end up strangling your high
A obs with a too low max bit limit while
at the same time have no impact on your
underwear campaign. So the solution is
to make sure that you split these
products up into different campaigns.
But again, only if you need to and only
if you see the point in doing it and if
you're going to use this as an
aggressive tactic. I'll say this, it's
very, very rare that we will split up
campaigns per category. We will take
high AOV products and usually put them
in their own campaign if we have enough
conversion volume for them to run by
themselves because then we can work with
a different target. We can work with
different budget. We can work with a
different max bit limit and it's just a
better way to work with them. It's not
always we do it. It's not always it's
necessary. It's one of those like edge
cases. 5% of the account can do better
by doing it. Sometimes it's it's it's
super important. Sometimes it's not. But
in summary, in 80% of the cases that I
see, then smart bing is doing pretty
good job. But in the edge cases, in
order to hit get to the next level, get
the last five, 10, 15% of performance
out of your Google Ads account. That's
where smart bidding might bid too high
and we can't just run seasonal bid
adjustments forever. And that's when max
bit limits become a really good tool to
override smart bidding. Just be careful
when you do it. If you have any
suggestions, if you have any comments on
how to do smart bidding with max bit
limits, I'd love to hear them in the
comments. Otherwise, subscribe for the
next video that comes out next week. If
you're into practical PPC insights that
you can actually help you, then
subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and
call out what's working and what's not.
No fluff, just the stuff that you can
use every single week.